# Other Disorders

### Personality Disorders

When a person's behavior and experiences persistently deviate from cultural expectations, he or she may have a personality disorder. The patterns of behavior may develop in adolescence and continue well into adulthood. The person perceives his or her behavior as appropriate behavior. Therefore, personality disorders are considered pervasive and inflexible. Two common personality disorders are antisocial personality disorder and borderline personality disorder.

* **Antisocial Personality Disorder** is a personality disorder where a person exhibits a pattern of behavior that shows no regard for the rights of others and violates the rights of others. Though it may begin in childhood, usually people are not diagnosed with the disorder until after the age of 18. Those with antisocial personality disorder may fail to conform to social norms and laws, exhibit deceptive behaviors, habitually lie, and act impulsively and recklessly.&#x20;
* **Borderline Personality Disorder** is a personality disorder where a person experiences long-term instability in mood, behaviors, relationships and self-image. Someone with borderline personality disorder may experience lingering feelings of loneliness, boredom, and anger. Reactions to situations may be extreme and range from panic to depression to rage. Relationships with family and friends tend to be unstable and volatile. A person with borderline personality disorder may partake in impulsive activities like substance or alcohol abuse, and exhibit self-harming or suicidal behaviors.

### Eating Disorders

Eating disorders are mental disorders that cause severe concern over food and weight. People with eating disorders develop emotions, attitudes, and behaviors that affect their eating habits. As with the other conditions, causes of eating disorders are unknown, but research is starting to suggest that a combination of biological, genetic, social, and psychological factors may contribute to causing eating disorders. The three most common eating disorders are anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, and compulsive (binge) eating.

* **Anorexia nervosa** is an eating disorder that causes a person to eat very little food and keep weight an at unhealthy low. Those with anorexia nervosa exhibit a strong fear for gaining weight. They may cut their food into very small pieces to eat, refuse to eat in front of people, exercise excessively, and may have a distorted perception of their body image.&#x20;
* **Bulimia nervosa** is an eating disorder where a person eats a lot of food and then purges the food. The person tends to overeat, then senses a loss of control and self-disgust for overeating. As a result, the person feels the need to rid him or herself of the food, and does so through vomiting, using laxatives or diuretics, excessively exercising, or fasting.
* **Compulsive, or binge, eating** is an eating disorder characterized by eating a much larger amount of food in a shorter period of time than the amount that would normally be eaten. A person may feel out of control during an episode. Compulsive eating may involve eating much faster than normal, eating when there is no indication of hunger, eating between daily meals, and eating more than 5,000 calories in one sitting. Because of the compulsion to eat, a person may experience feelings of self-disgust or become depressed.
